[mkdocs] docs: add namespace tutorials (#1810)
symbol/symbol: mkdocs/pages/en/devbook/namespaces/register-subnamespace.md

---
title: Register Subnamespace
---

# Registering a Subnamespace

Subnamespaces (also called "child" namespaces) extend the hierarchical structure of <namespaces:>.

This tutorial shows how to register a subnamespace under an existing <root namespace:>.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure to:

- Set up your development environment.
  See [Setting Up a Development Environment](../start/setup.md).
- Have <account:> with an existing root namespace.
  See [Registering a Root Namespace](./register-root-namespace.md).

    !!! note
        The examples in this tutorial use a root namespace named `ns_root`.
        Make sure to update the code to use your own root namespace name.

> - Obtain <XYM:> to pay for the transaction and lease fees.

Reviewer: This bullet point is rendered indented because it's missing a blank line after the `!!! note`.

---
title: Register Subnamespace
---

# Registering a Subnamespace

<Subnamespaces:> (also called "child" namespaces) extend the hierarchical structure of <namespaces:>.

This tutorial shows how to register a subnamespace under an existing <root namespace:>.

Once registered, additional steps are required to link the namespace to a mosaic or account,
as explained in [Next Steps](#next-steps).

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure to:

- Set up your development environment.
  See [Setting Up a Development Environment](../start/setup.md).

> - Have <account:> with an existing root namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have an <account:> with an existing root namespace.
```

  See [Registering a Root Namespace](./register-root-namespace.md).

    !!! note
        The examples in this tutorial use a root namespace named `ns_root`.
        Make sure to update the code to use your own root namespace name.

- Obtain <XYM:> to pay for the transaction and lease fees.
  See [Getting Testnet Funds from the Faucet](../accounts/testnet-faucet.md).

Additionally, review the [Transfer transaction](../transactions/transfer.md) tutorial to understand how
transactions are announced and confirmed.

## Full Code

{% import 'tutorial.jinja2' as tutorial with context %}

{{ tutorial.code_full('devbook/namespaces/register-subnamespace', ['py', 'js']) }}

## Code Explanation

Most of the code follows the same pattern as registering a root namespace.
This section focuses on the key differences.

For detailed explanations of the common steps (setting up the account, fetching network time and fees, and announcing),

> see [Registering a Root Namespace](./register-root-namespace.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code follows the same pattern as the [Registering a Root Namespace](./register-root-namespace.md) tutorial.
This section focuses only on the key differences.
```

Good call, avoiding the repetition. I just made the intro a bit shorter.

* **Child namespace ID** (line 30): Shows both decimal and hexadecimal representations to match the `id` field on
    line 19.

* **Registration type** (line 34): The value `1` indicates a subnamespace (versus `0` for root namespaces).

* **Owner address** (line 35): The account that registered the namespace, which must be the same as the root
    namespace owner.

* **Depth** (line 36): The depth of `2` indicates there are 2 levels in the namespace hierarchy.
    Level 0 is the root namespace, and level 1 is this subnamespace.

* **Levels** (lines 37-38): The full hierarchical path. `level0` contains the root namespace ID, and `level1`
    contains the child ID. If depth were 3, `level2` would contain the grandchild ID.

* **Start and end heights** (lines 39-40): These values are inherited from the root namespace, not set independently.

The transaction hash printed in the output can also be used to search for the transaction
in the [Symbol Testnet Explorer](https://testnet.symbol.fyi/).

!!! info "Subnamespace registered but not linked yet"

    A namespace becomes useful when it serves as an alias for a <mosaic:> or an <account:>.

>     Link the namespace to an identifier using the guides in [Next Steps](#next-steps).

Reviewer: I believe you only wanted to have this info box once, in the previous section.
